1-conduct.md, before:

# 1 The Eight Ates

The culture we project is the culture we invite. As developers of a social platform, it is our duty to consciously cultivate a positive and mutually beneficial culture. These 8 principles encapsulate the ethos of Sansar as a company and we strongly encourage our community of creators and participants to adopt them, too.

# 1.1 Accommodate

Inclusivity and accessibility are core principles at Sansar. Everyone is welcomed and respected except those who refuse to welcome and respect others.

# 1.2 Appreciate
We practice gratitude, because our success is made possible by good fortune and the efforts of others as much as by our own efforts.

# 1.3 Stimulate
Sansar exists to offer people meaningful and impactful experiences; to encourage and reward curiosity.

# 1.4 Educate
Always be teaching, always be learning. Improve your own skills and those of others around you; stay open-minded.

# 1.5 Collaborate
When people work together, the whole is greater than the sum of its parts—especially if they’re different from each other.

# 1.6 Innovate
We already know what happens when you do things the same way they’ve always been done, so let’s try new ways of doing things.

# 1.7 Iterate
Digital creations are living things that can and should be continually improved and optimized.

# 1.8 Mitigate
It’s not enough to do no harm, we must actively work to counteract things that cause harm.

# 2 Application

This is the default Sansar conduct policy. It is user-genertated policy and not policy set by Sansar as a company.

## 2,1 Terms Of Service

No policy can contain anything that violates the Sansar Terms Of Service (TOS). If it does, the TOS will always superceede it.

## 2.2 Adherance to local laws

No policy can contain anything that violates real-world laws. All individuals must always obey laws within their legal jurisdictions.

## 2.3 Scope

This policy applies to all people that visit Sansar worlds, including Sansar employees.

Commit message:

Sexual behavior policy
This suggestion came from @olympusMonspeacebeuponhim in #7

1-conduct.md, after:

# 1 The Eight Ates

The culture we project is the culture we invite. As developers of a social platform, it is our duty to consciously cultivate a positive and mutually beneficial culture. These 8 principles encapsulate the ethos of Sansar as a company and we strongly encourage our community of creators and participants to adopt them, too.

# 1.1 Accommodate

Inclusivity and accessibility are core principles at Sansar. Everyone is welcomed and respected except those who refuse to welcome and respect others.

# 1.2 Appreciate
We practice gratitude, because our success is made possible by good fortune and the efforts of others as much as by our own efforts.

# 1.3 Stimulate
Sansar exists to offer people meaningful and impactful experiences; to encourage and reward curiosity.

# 1.4 Educate
Always be teaching, always be learning. Improve your own skills and those of others around you; stay open-minded.

# 1.5 Collaborate
When people work together, the whole is greater than the sum of its parts—especially if they’re different from each other.

# 1.6 Innovate
We already know what happens when you do things the same way they’ve always been done, so let’s try new ways of doing things.

# 1.7 Iterate
Digital creations are living things that can and should be continually improved and optimized.

# 1.8 Mitigate
It’s not enough to do no harm, we must actively work to counteract things that cause harm.

# 2 Application

This is the default Sansar conduct policy. It is user-genertated policy and not policy set by Sansar as a company.

## 2.1 Terms Of Service

No policy can contain anything that violates the Sansar Terms Of Service (TOS). If it does, the TOS will always superceede it.

## 2.2 Adherance to local laws

No policy can contain anything that violates real-world laws. All individuals must always obey laws within their legal jurisdictions.

## 2.3 Scope

This policy applies to all people that visit Sansar worlds, including Sansar employees.

# 3 Behavior

## 3.2 Sexual behavior

On top of any applicable local laws you must follow, you cannot make sexual comments or behave in a sexual manner towards a user without their consent.
