2-enforcement.md, before:

# 2 Enforcement
The use of force, by any means, is a type of violence. When you force anyone to do anything they do not wish, you take away their freedom.

Our prime directive #1 is to accommodate others, which means they should be welcomed and respected, unless they are unwilling to do the same to others.

Therefore, enforcement cannot be taken lightly and must always have a path to repeal, because no system that enacts anything can ever be complete, and subsequent directives require us to innovate, iterate and mitigate.

# 2.1 Clarity
Nothing shall be enforced without clarity. At minimum, which conduct was violated must be specified and cited for any enforcement to be possible in the first place.

## 2.1.2 Clarity of Law
The laws themselves should be clear. For example, if a term falls out of common use, it should be removed. We don't wish to include Olde English or it's equivalent (500 years from now) into our laws. Everything should be easy for the average human being to fully understand.

## 2.1.3 Replace when possible
Laws that are ambiguous, unfair or harmful should be replaced instead of amended. You should remove bad laws just like you would remove a hair from your soup. Similarly, statutes should be as simple as possible but not simpler, meaning, if it is discovered that something can be conveyed in fewer words, replace the law.

## 2.1.4 Philosophical Razors
A razor is a principle that allows you to shave down an issue so that what remains to make a decision on is a smaller issue than you had originally. If an argument to judgement or appeal is not obviously apparent, please utilize these razors to avoid re-inventing the thinking wheel. These razors will argue a thousand words for you each on their own.

### 2.1.4.1 Occam's razor
Simpler explanations are more likely to be correct; avoid unnecessary or improbable assumptions.

### 2.1.4.2 Hanlon's razor
Never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by stupidity. Stupidity is not a crime.

### 2.1.4.3 Hitchens's razor
That which can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence.

### 2.1.4.4 Hume's razor
What "ought" to be cannot be deduced from what "is".

### 2.1.4.5 Alder's razor
If something cannot be settled by experiment or observation, then it is not debatable.

### 2.1.4.6 Sagan's razor
Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.

### 2.1.4.7 Popper's razor
For something to be acceptable, it must be falsifiable. i.e., a way to prove it wrong if it is possibly wrong, must exist.

### 2.1.4.8 Wolf's razor
Anecdotal evidence and eyewitness testimony are imperfect. Whenever possible, do not use them.

# 2.2 Proof
It is not enough to clearly indicate that someone has done something wrong, proof must exist that a normal Sansarian would find believable, that specifically indicates conduct was violated.

# 2.3 Hearings
For enforcement to be enacted, a hearing must be held asynchronously and in public. Because a hearing cannot be held immediately, and time must be provided for people to discuss the issue, temporary enforcement can be enacted.

## 2.3.1 Temporary enforcement
Temporary enforcements can be enacted to protect the Sansar community between when the violation is suspected and when the hearing is had. A temporary enforcement cannot last more than 7 days. A temporary enforcement is limited to prevention of use.

## 2.3.2 Speech acts
Speech is not clear. Unlike laws in many countries today, Sansar does not observe a speech act as any form of law or enforcement. It is not enough to simply declare something. It must be written, and public, so that it can be examined and attacked.

## 2.3.3 Hearing transcript
Hearing transcripts can exist in the form of anything that can both be proven externally, and require email address or other accepted verification attached to a Sansarian, be it email, slack, Discord, Google Chat, etc. However, GitHub or other event-based systems or systems with history that cannot be altered are strongly preferred.

## 2.3.4 Hearing timeframe
Hearings are asynchronous. They can last up to a week. This is intentional and to give people time to relax and understand a situation. If a hearing does not prove a violation occurred, an act of enforcement cannot be put in place.

# 2.4 Appeals
Anyone can appeal an enforcement act at any time, however, it is more likely that the correct thing to do is to change the law itself. If you change a law that is cited in your enforcement act, you will automatically receive an appeal, and that appeal is likely going to automatically vindicate you. What is more, you will prevent the injustice happening to someone else.

Appeals, when granted, are conducted exactly like a hearing.

## 2.4.1 Appeal timeframe
Appeals can be costly, especially when they are unlimited, therefore it may take an extended period of time for an appeal. Appeals are a last resort. Instead, make a pull request to change the law itself, which will fix every single poor judgement affected by the laws you changed.

# 2.5 Enforcement Acts
Any enforcement act must:
1. Exist in the public.
2. List the violation statute.
3. List enforcement statutes.
4. List the hearing transcript.
5. Be searchable by violation or enforcement statute or transcript.

In this way, any enforcement act can be automatically repealed by changing the statutes involved.

## 2.5.1 Types of enforcement acts

1. Temporary platform ban (for longer than 7 days)
2. Permanent platform ban
3. Temporary service ban (for longer than 7 days)
4. Permanent service ban

# 2.6 Changing Laws
Any law can be changed by making a PR (Pull Request) to the law you wish to change. Include reasoning, razors, and insight in your argument. If your change is accepted, it takes effect immediately. If your change is not accepted, reasoning will be provided to you as to why, so you can attempt to correct the issue.

# 2.7 Reviewing Enforcement Acts
Enforcement acts must be reviewed when any law changes that affects them. In general, if the statute is repealed that involved the violation or enforcement reasoning, the enforcement act must be automatically repealed.

# 2.8 Forgiveness
If someone receives an enforcement act, and the person they violated decides to forgive them, it is up to the Sansarian that forgave the violator to repeal the act. If they wish to do so, it must be repealed.

# 2.9 Feelings
Your feelings, if you have been wronged, or accused of wrongdoing, should not come into play in any regard. You will not get a free pass if you violate a law while being heard for violating a law. Please keep yourself calm, cool, collected, and attack the act instead of the person in every situation.

# 2.10 Authorities
Appealing to authority is a logical fallacy. Sansar elects, at will, people to enforce Sansarian law, but the law itself is yours, and the actions taken are public. If you find an authority is unjust, ask for them to be trained or removed. Nobody is the boss of you except logic and reason, and on our platform, kindness.

Commit message:

Remove hearing verbiage
Removes hearing verbiage and applies asynchronous messaging guidelines to appeals process

2-enforcement.md, after:

# 2 Enforcement
The use of force, by any means, is a type of violence. When you force anyone to do anything they do not wish, you take away their freedom.

Our prime directive #1 is to accommodate others, which means they should be welcomed and respected, unless they are unwilling to do the same to others.

Therefore, enforcement cannot be taken lightly and must always have a path to repeal, because no system that enacts anything can ever be complete, and subsequent directives require us to innovate, iterate and mitigate.

# 2.1 Clarity
Nothing shall be enforced without clarity. At minimum, which conduct was violated must be specified and cited for any enforcement to be possible in the first place.

## 2.1.2 Clarity of Law
The laws themselves should be clear. For example, if a term falls out of common use, it should be removed. We don't wish to include Olde English or it's equivalent (500 years from now) into our laws. Everything should be easy for the average human being to fully understand.

## 2.1.3 Replace when possible
Laws that are ambiguous, unfair or harmful should be replaced instead of amended. You should remove bad laws just like you would remove a hair from your soup. Similarly, statutes should be as simple as possible but not simpler, meaning, if it is discovered that something can be conveyed in fewer words, replace the law.

## 2.1.4 Philosophical Razors
A razor is a principle that allows you to shave down an issue so that what remains to make a decision on is a smaller issue than you had originally. If an argument to judgement or appeal is not obviously apparent, please utilize these razors to avoid re-inventing the thinking wheel. These razors will argue a thousand words for you each on their own.

### 2.1.4.1 Occam's razor
Simpler explanations are more likely to be correct; avoid unnecessary or improbable assumptions.

### 2.1.4.2 Hanlon's razor
Never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by stupidity. Stupidity is not a crime.

### 2.1.4.3 Hitchens's razor
That which can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence.

### 2.1.4.4 Hume's razor
What "ought" to be cannot be deduced from what "is".

### 2.1.4.5 Alder's razor
If something cannot be settled by experiment or observation, then it is not debatable.

### 2.1.4.6 Sagan's razor
Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.

### 2.1.4.7 Popper's razor
For something to be acceptable, it must be falsifiable. i.e., a way to prove it wrong if it is possibly wrong, must exist.

### 2.1.4.8 Wolf's razor
Anecdotal evidence and eyewitness testimony are imperfect. Whenever possible, do not use them.

# 2.2 Proof
It is not enough to clearly indicate that someone has done something wrong, proof must exist that a normal Sansarian would find believable, that specifically indicates conduct was violated.

## 2.3.0 Temporary enforcement
Temporary enforcements can be enacted to protect the Sansar community between when the violation is suspected and when the investigation or detailed review is completed. A temporary enforcement cannot last more than 7 days. A temporary enforcement is limited to prevention of use.

## 2.3.1 Speech acts
Speech is not clear. Unlike laws in many countries today, Sansar does not observe a speech act as any form of law or enforcement. It is not enough to simply declare something. It must be written, and public, so that it can be examined and attacked.

# 2.4 Appeals
Anyone can appeal an enforcement act at any time, however, it is more likely that the correct thing to do is to change the law itself. If you change a law that is cited in your enforcement act, you will automatically receive an appeal, and that appeal is likely going to automatically vindicate you. What is more, you will prevent the injustice happening to someone else.

Appeals, when granted, are conducted through asyncronous messaging be it email, slack, Discord, Google Chat, etc. However, GitHub or other event-based systems or systems with history that cannot be altered are strongly preferred.

## 2.4.1 Appeal timeframe
Appeals can be costly, especially when they are unlimited, therefore it may take an extended period of time for an appeal. Appeals are a last resort. Instead, make a pull request to change the law itself, which will fix every single poor judgement affected by the laws you changed.

# 2.5 Enforcement Acts
Any enforcement act must:
1. Exist in the public.
2. List the violation statute.
3. List enforcement statutes.
4. List the hearing transcript.
5. Be searchable by violation or enforcement statute or transcript.

In this way, any enforcement act can be automatically repealed by changing the statutes involved.

## 2.5.1 Types of enforcement acts

1. Temporary platform ban (for longer than 7 days)
2. Permanent platform ban
3. Temporary service ban (for longer than 7 days)
4. Permanent service ban

# 2.6 Changing Laws
Any law can be changed by making a PR (Pull Request) to the law you wish to change. Include reasoning, razors, and insight in your argument. If your change is accepted, it takes effect immediately. If your change is not accepted, reasoning will be provided to you as to why, so you can attempt to correct the issue.

# 2.7 Reviewing Enforcement Acts
Enforcement acts must be reviewed when any law changes that affects them. In general, if the statute is repealed that involved the violation or enforcement reasoning, the enforcement act must be automatically repealed.

# 2.8 Forgiveness
If someone receives an enforcement act, and the person they violated decides to forgive them, it is up to the Sansarian that forgave the violator to repeal the act. If they wish to do so, it must be repealed.

# 2.9 Feelings
Your feelings, if you have been wronged, or accused of wrongdoing, should not come into play in any regard. You will not get a free pass if you violate a law while being heard for violating a law. Please keep yourself calm, cool, collected, and attack the act instead of the person in every situation.

# 2.10 Authorities
Appealing to authority is a logical fallacy. Sansar elects, at will, people to enforce Sansarian law, but the law itself is yours, and the actions taken are public. If you find an authority is unjust, ask for them to be trained or removed. Nobody is the boss of you except logic and reason, and on our platform, kindness.
